> [!summary] 
> This phase focuses on the security mechanisms used to verify the user's identity. It is crucial to ensure these mechanisms cannot be bypassed or compromised. 

> [!warning] 
> Again, always make sure you have the proper authorization before performing any type of reconnaissance or penetration testing. 


## Test Password Quality Rules

Check how the application handles password strength requirements. Try to register or change a password to a common or short password. This can be done manually.

## Test for Username Enumeration

If an application responds differently to valid and invalid usernames, an attacker can use this behavior to enumerate usernames. For example, you can use Burp Suite's Intruder to automate this test:

> [!todo] 
> 1. Intercept the login request with Burp Suite.
> 2. Send the request to Intruder (Right click -> Send to Intruder).
> 3. In Intruder, go to the Positions tab and clear the default positions (Clear ยง).
> 4. Add the position where the username is (Add ยง).
> 5. Go to the Payloads tab, and load a list of usernames to test.
> 6. Start the attack (Start attack).

## Test Resilience to Password Guessing

Most applications should implement account lockout after a certain number of failed login attempts. You can test this by trying to log in with an invalid password multiple times. Make sure to get explicit permission before performing this test.


## Test Remember Password Functionality

If the application has a "Remember me" option, check how it's implemented. Is it safe to use? Does it extend the session indefinitely, or is there a maximum time limit?

