> [!warning]
> Again, always make sure you have the proper authorization before performing any type of reconnaissance or penetration testing.

## Test for Detailed Error Messages

Detailed error messages can reveal sensitive information about the application's inner workings, configuration, or data.

Tools: Browser, Burp Suite.

Procedure: Try to cause errors in the application by inputting invalid data or unexpected characters.

```bash
# Input unexpected characters or invalid data in user-input fields.
' OR '1'='1
```

## Test for Stack Traces

A stack trace can give an attacker information about the paths and the types of technologies being used, which can aid in further attacks.

Tools: Browser, Burp Suite.

Procedure: As with testing for detailed error messages, try to cause errors and observe whether stack traces are displayed.

## Test for Information Leakage in Comments

Developers often leave comments in code that can reveal important information about how the code or the application works.

Tools: Browser's Developer Tools.

Procedure: Inspect the source code of web pages for any comments that might reveal sensitive information.

```bash
# In browser, right-click on the page and select "Inspect" or "Inspect Element", then look for comments in the HTML, CSS, or JavaScript code.
```

## Test for HTTP Headers

HTTP headers can sometimes include sensitive information or information about the technologies being used.

Tools: Browser, Burp Suite.

Procedure: Inspect HTTP headers of requests and responses for sensitive information.

```bash
# In Burp Suite, under the Proxy -> HTTP history tab, you can see the headers of all the HTTP requests and responses.
```

## Test for Application and Version Disclosure

Applications often disclose what software and which version they're running. This can aid an attacker in looking for known vulnerabilities.

Tools: Browser, Burp Suite, OWASP ZAP.

Procedure: Check error messages, HTTP headers, and other places for any mention of the software being used and their versions.

Always remember to get appropriate permissions before performing any of these tests. Unauthorized testing could lead to legal issues.
